good morning everybody welcome to
session 419 cocoa user interface
programming in depth for a session of
the last day so hopefully you guys are
wide awake if you're here at nine
o'clock in the morning either you saw
andreas when cuz presentation on two
days ago the intro version of this or
you still think this is coco performance
techniques it's not we're going to go
in-depth on some of the cool new ways of
doing your interface and to talk about
is Mark Petrelli thank you Jason so good
morning Wednesday we introduced a lot of
new technology that makes user interface
programming much easier now today we're
going to talk about the details in
section 412 we let you know about all
the new bindings and controllers
technology we're introducing the goal is
to automate user interface handling so
you have to write much less code to
provide some of the features you've been
asking for of course we integrated
support for it into interface builder
and the whole goal of course is to make
your development faster and easier and
the effect on your application much less
glue code so i love this screenshot on a
big list of ib outlets just goes
completely away so what i'm going to
talk about today and general i'm going
to talk about what it takes for your
model objects to integrate into this
system and the interfaces by which we
allow that to happen our key value
coding key value observing key value
binding talked about a little bit about
how the controller class to fit into
this and there'll be some notes about
performance at the end so the
architecture that we try to adhere to
while implementing all this is a classic
model view controller
for Coco model-view-controller means the
view classes that we've always had a
full set of user interface controls and
everything model class is like NS
document and nsdictionary makes a great
generic model class and of course the
model classes you provide now we're
introducing three new controller classes
and its array controller and its user
defaults controller and then its objects
controller we're using the key value
coding system that's been in foundation
since Mac OS 10 point and before
actually we're introducing key value
observing and Panther and key value
binding which ties it all the other is
how object relationships are established
at nib loading times and things like
that and in the interest of full
disclosure at this point I should admit
that on the WWDC disc NS array
controllers their key value observing is
mostly there but NS array controller
doesn't use key value observing so a lot
of what I'm going to talk about this a
little bit idealized but it's definitely
all going to be there in Panther and
there's the lots of things on the wwcc
or explain it and when I give examples
today I'm just going to use the old
classic sketch I updated sketch so that
the graphics view supports binding and
does observing things like that and it
hooks up to one of the new array
controllers and the draw document got
updated a little bit to support key
value coding key belly observing and
I'll show you that so terminology
there's some words that I'm going to be
using that everybody uses but not
everybody uses the same way so today
when I see a property I mean an
attribute a two and relationship or too
many relationship by attribute I mean
something simple a single immutable
value like the fill color stroke width
of a sketch graphic a 2-1 related object
is a single object related to another it
it's not an attribute it has properties
of its own so if you know it'll have
attributes an example is the sketch
imageclass if you if you walk to
we'll code the image is 21 related to
the graphic I think that holds it and
too many related objects are as the name
implies collections of related objects
for the graphics of a sketch document a
sketch document has a collection of
graphics so the first leg of the tripod
on which all this is built is key value
coding it's it's been around for a long
long time we're making some changes to
the implementations of the existing API
we're adding new API and why do you care
because if you're implementing custom
model classes and you want them to work
with this binding and work with
controllers they have to be key value
coding compliant and I'll show you what
key value coding compliant means so key
value coding is our system for giving
access to object properties using a very
generic API that identifies them by key
and by keying we just need string for
the most part a sketch graphic has
around sorry sketch document has
graphics identified by the word graphics
and the individual graphics have
properties like fill color and you just
name the keys you know something
programmer readable and these are the
same keys that you saw it typed into the
interface builder bindings inspector in
Wednesday's demos so in the context of
what we're talking about key value
coding lets views get and set values and
controllers and it lets controllers
getting set values and model objects so
the first semester of key value coding
there's a bunch when we're going to go
through like four of them today though
they they're there what they would they
serve about ninety percent of the time
value for key return to value of the key
property what's interesting about what
it does is it actually uses the
objective-c runtime to poke around in
the class of the model objects which
this message is sent and it invokes an
accessor method whose name is typically
just the same as the key so your model
class is you get to write in a very
natural way
but this APL API allows clients to
access them in a very generic way one of
the features it does for you it converts
scalar values like bullion's and
integers and floats to NS numbers so
that they can be passed up through the
API and around to different parts easily
so for example sketch graphic has a
boolean attribute draws stroke and the
accessor method is implemented in a
totally natural way and it still works
when value for key draws stroke is sent
to that object and then this number is
returned and an ass number is a little
bit easier to pass around for the
generic stuff than a boolean or an
integer or flow would be something new
we're adding to value for key for
Panther is actually inspired by
scripting and we're adding specific
support to value for key for too many
relationships you know collections of
objects that aren't most easily stored
in NS array a complicated example of
this is in text storage its scripting
support has a to many relationship
called words and to have it pick it all
apart and return an array of words every
time somebody asks just for one of them
isn't really that great of a thing or so
we're we're adding a few more key value
coding compliance methods so you'll have
your choice you can either implement
graphic in the example to sketch drawn
ashman or you can implement two methods
count of graphics and object and
graphics at index to provide access to
that relationship and so and whatever
you choose the key value coding client
the caller a value for key can't tell
the difference it gets back and NS array
key value coding puts the NS array
together and the client that uses key
value coding can send any NS array
method to it including the methods that
are implemented in categories and then
try something new we added just by
request was support for key value coding
get accessor names that more closely
match the conventions that you see in
our API value for key not only looks for
methods of the same name that looks for
methods that begin with is so you know
you can write still more natural code a
brand new method for Panther is set
value for key and as its name implies it
sets the value of the keyed property
it's a renaming of a method that's
already in there called take value for
key and typically we don't just go
rename things and like in the kit this
is actually in addition to the take
value for key method that's already
there but we consider the renaming we
realize while we're working on this that
key value codeine is going to get much
more popular more widely used than it
has been so we decided to clean up
things like this so the default
implementation does the equivalent of
what value for key would would do it
looks for a method whose name fits the
pattern and invokes it so when you send
an object set value for key fill color
it will invoke a method named set fill
color and just like value for key does
it does NS number two scalar value
conversion something that's been missing
now we're adding to panther this can be
very useful in the context of this UI
programming is a new method named
validate value for key error and its
implementation is supposed to either
return a value good enough for passing
into set value for key or supposed to
return an error and the reason this is
separate from set value is because of
separate validation rules from decisions
about when to validate how to validate
is always a model decision but when to
value that validate is a UI decision so
for truly reusable model objects keeping
the separate is a good thing you might
want to defer validation till the user
hits the next puttan next button on a
pain or something like that and the way
you implement this is follows a typical
KDC pattern you just have to name the
method correctly and
said I couldn't think of an example of
this for sketch so I picked the zip code
which I think people will probably be
typing in a lot so and the method name
just follows that pattern something
really new for Panther is this method
mutable array value for key and what it
does is it returns an NS mutable array
or something indistinguishable from one
that contains too many related objects
and the reason we need this is because
you're not supposed to mutate the NS
array that's returned my value for key
when the key refers to Germany
relationship so we wanted to support
this concept of you know a client that's
naive of the class to which is found
being able to mutate sets of objects so
we added this and the invoker of this
method gets to send any NS mutable array
message to the result again including
things are implemented on categories so
the user of this method really has total
flexibility it's not limited to a
specific API when manipulating the data
but at the model class that provides the
data doesn't have much responsibility it
just has to implement two methods that
corresponds to the two most primitive NS
mutable array primitives insertion and
removal so the client of key value
coding gets to do all sorts of different
things but thing that implements key
value coding support for that key
doesn't have much responsibility
a concept that will be coming up a lot
as I talk and shows up a lot in this UI
technology is the concept of key path
and for each one of the methods I just
showed you there's a variant that takes
a key path instead of just a key and
these are actually probably invoked a
little more often than the plane key
methods and what's the key past a key
path is just a dot separated list of
keys and those methods that take keepass
pick them apart at the right time and
invoke accessor methods correctly so if
you send to some object set value for
key path image flip it'll get the image
and it will effectively send set value
for key to that image which boils down
basically to the line you see on the
bottom of just you know getting the
image and calling set flipped so key
value binding is in terms of key pass
and key value observing is in terms of G
path and our controllers use key pass
for example and NS array controller
republish a--'s the properties of
whatever it's bound to it republish
a--'s those properties you know of the
selected objects and it does it using
this key platform so you have to know
about them but you don't have to do
anything to implement them so if you're
writing custom model objects like sketch
graphics for example here's basically
all you have to do to make those classes
key value coding compliant you'd have to
implement enough methods for value for
key and set value for K and things like
that to work so for each attribute or to
one relationship you know single values
you can just implement methods named the
same as the key that you picked to
identify that property and if it's a
mutable property you have to implement a
set method also if there's validation to
be done you implement the validation
method if there is no validation method
that's fine validate value for key air
just assumes there's no validation
necessary for each to many relationship
like the graphics in a sketch document
you have your choice
you can either implement a simple method
with the same name as the relationship
or you can implement a pair of methods
whichever is most convenient in your
situation and you know you can change it
after the fact about having to go change
other code for each to many relationship
that can be mutated things going to be
inserted removed a replacement it you
just have to implement this pair of
methods insert object and Keaton X and
move on just from chea decks so the demo
is you saw on Wednesday were great and
they took advantage of the fact that
nsdictionary is key value coding
compliant so for simple model objects
don't bother right in the class just use
nsdictionary so you know it it responds
to the set value for key and value for
key method works fine it's and it's a
very least and easy way to start
prototyping and I think a lot of times
are going to find out that your
application is done before you run into
the limitations of good old nsdictionary
so possibly the the first limitation it
will run into though is the fact that it
doesn't do any validation of the values
set value for key just goes in the head
goes ahead and sets the value whether
it's valid or not so the next thing that
we're introducing panthers key value
observing its all new api i'll talk
about how to observe i'll explain why
your model objects have to be key value
observing compliant so that other
objects can bind to them and i'll
explain what you have to do to make your
model classes kita observing component
so what does key value observing do the
summary is that it allows objects to be
notified of changes to specific
properties of other objects the
notifications are very detailed and the
context of this UI programming it lets
views be notified of changes to values
and controllers and it lets controllers
be notified of changes to values and
model objects
an observer registers its interest in
getting notifications using this method
add observer for keypad options context
this isn't part of an informal protocol
and this object really does have an
implementation of this but does
everything you need we don't really
expect this to be over in that often
these messages are actually sent to the
individual objects to be observed
there's no observer Center that you know
about or anything like that for this to
be meaningful the receiver must be key
by observing compliant as far as
reference counting goes I think there's
probably going to be a bunch of
different situations as far as reference
counting goes what's appropriate for the
observer to observe the observed object
or not so key value observing just stays
out of the discussion it's API it
doesn't cause any routines or releases
well there'll be some standard things
that people will do over and over again
the star is retaining and releasing but
the key value observing leaves
everything very flexible and as you
would expect if there's an ad observer
method there's also or remove observer
method so the first parameter is the
observers the recipient of notifications
about changes to the property identified
by the keep at this observer must
implement the NS key value observing
informal protocol which is one method
this one deserve value for key path of
object change context and I'll talk
about it a bit later and as again as an
example of who's observing what they
controls and sketches inspector panel
that will show you in a bit will observe
the selection property of an hour NS
array controller to which is bound so
the key path is just the keep a that
identifies the property to be observed
sticking to that example selection dot
fill color and it can identify and
attribute the two in a relationship or
committee relationship you can not only
observe simple values you can observe
collections values and be told them
things are inserted or removed or
replaced
he Valley observing supports two options
right now we we definitely expect this
list to grow in the future but right now
they're just too new and old and these
don't control when observing
notifications are sent just what's in
them when they are sent so new controls
whether or not the observer notification
has the value after the change and the
old controls whether or not the observer
notification contains the value from
before the change that's causing the
observer so I think in the the feedback
after the session on Wednesday somebody
asked about automatic undo support which
is something we always think about and I
think this old option will probably be a
big piece of that comes around and the
kind of there's a context parameter
following a pattern that's common in a
lot of cocoa API is something that you
can pass in that will just be passed
back to you at the right time and we
think people probably use this for you
know identifying the reason for the
observation when one observer is
observing a bunch of different things so
the the notification method observed
value for Q path of object change
context is what sent to the observer for
every change to the observed property
and it's very generic key value
observing doesn't care what you do when
you observe this it's it's meant to be
very low level and very generic so and
the key path and the object are pretty
much just the things bouncing back to
you same thing with context change is a
menace dictionary full of the
information about what changed there are
four possible entries into it the kind
of change indexes for the change of the
irony and new values and old values
there are two basic kinds of observable
change notification the first one is for
simple setting
when you know he value coding set value
for key method is invoked and somebody's
observing for that property this is the
kind of changeable use setting if
somebody's observing a to many
relationship and it is something it's
inserted or removed or replace you know
one of these next three observer
notifications will be sent and for
example when might that happen when
somebody uses that mutable array value
for key method method and you know
mutates the array that it gets back
something like this will be sent to any
observers and in the case of insertion
removal replacement it provides the
indexes of the objects that are inserted
or removed to replace using the new
index set class we're introducing them
Panther it doesn't make sense for simple
setting changes so it's not there then
and the last two entries of the key
value observing change notification our
old values and new values and you know
these aren't there if the observer
didn't specify it wanted them when it
registered as an observer so for simple
changes settings these are just the old
and new values of the property for
insertions removals and replacements
these are actually a raise of the
objects that are inserted or move to
replaced
so how do you what does your model class
have to do for these key value observer
notifications be sent out when
properties in your model class are
changed well there's the pretty easy way
in the really easy way this is a pretty
easy way you just stepped us around the
change with indications of will change
value for key and did change on four key
and in the case of too many that was
four attributes into and relationships
or too many relationships when
collections of objects are being changed
the methods you have to invoke are a
little more detailed will change and yet
specify removal replacement or insertion
the relevant indexes and then again the
key that identifies the to many
relationship so that's not so bad but we
don't even want to you know force you to
have to write that much stuff into your
model classes so we're introducing a
feature called automatic key value
observer notification and it's actually
on by default so you don't even have to
do anything to turn it on and what
automatic qilai observer notification
means is whenever any of those key value
coding methods like set value for key is
invoked that will cause an automatic key
value observer notification to be sent
out and not only that but indications of
key value coding compliant methods
result in observing notifications so not
only the set value for key messages
cause observer notifications for that
key but soda implementations of the
accessor methods for that property and
not only do mutations of the result of
mutable array value for key cause
notifications but when any anybody sends
an insert object in key it index or move
object from key at index message to an
observed container that will cause key
value observer notifications so you
don't have to sprinkle will change value
for key and did change value for Keating
all over your code
if your model objects access their own
values and each other's values
consistent consistently through key
value coding compliant method will do
the rest you know simple set methods
just keep using those you know you might
already be using those and it'll just
automatically work so and of course
they're a couple situations where you
can't go through those key value coding
compliant methods and even when you're
using automatic key key value observer
notification the manual mode keeps
working so key value binding it's the
third lake leg of the tripod that all
this sits on and it's brand new API and
it's what ties it all together it's what
allows the value of an object's property
to be tied to the value of another
object property and the safety our
introducing provides plenty of
flexibility so that objects can support
binding options that we can't even
anticipate and key value binding when
it's being used that implies that
typically key value coding and key value
observing writing used to so this API is
key value binding API is used at nib
loading time typically you can be used
with other times of course and views and
controllers get hooked up to controllers
and model objects key value observer or
key value observers are registered with
the things that they're observing UI
controls at that point take
responsibility for updating whatever
they're bound to whenever the user
manipulates the value that they're
presenting and of course all the asset
classes to which are adding bindings
support do this so this is what the
method looks like it's just buying to
object with keep an options this is
again sent at nib loading time you can
use it at other times too for more
complicated situations but for a while
this will probably we don't expect too
many uses of it you know other than nib
loading time but it's there for you so
and of course there's an unbonded tick
so the parameters are the name of the
binding and a lot of these look like key
value coding keys but they don't
necessarily have to be and for example
NS control exposes a value binding and
NS text field exposes and editable by
meaning things like text color to the
other parameters are you know what is
being bound to the object that contains
the proper to be bound to and the key
path is a property and there's a
dictionary that takes options so I think
andreas covered most of these options
pretty well on Wednesday which is to
refresh your memory things like value
transformers something that can
manipulate the value for you know as
part of more glue while things are
moving around placeholders the marker
values that come out of controllers for
complicated selection situation become
place holders that are presented in the
UI and any options that are specific to
the binding so controller classes there
they're the first big clients of key
value coding key value observing and key
value binding there is an abstract
superclass NS controller and three
subclasses NS array controller object
controller and user defaults controller
so and its array controller is what you
would typically bind a table view to now
and NS array controllers have a to many
relationship named arranged objects
there's a set of objects to be presented
to the user after any sorting or
filtering or whatever it's done on the
other side of the arrange controller you
can bind it it's a ray relationship to
the to many relationship of a model
object in our example for example the
graphics of a sketch document what the
array controller we're using binds to so
in key value observer notifications from
the model object cause key value
observer notifications to be sent to the
table refers to the array controller
then to the table you and the the array
controller just doesn't pass them
straight through it updates them to take
things like sorting into account because
that's what the table view is thinking
about as arranged objects and it also
keeps the selection up to date when
inserted or removed objects I'm sorry
when objects are are removed or inserted
and make sure that the selection that's
showing in the table view still make
sense and in addition to binding an NS
array controller to a relationship of
model object you can just use the set
content method that it publishes and let
it manage the lifecycle of an array of
objects you don't have to you don't have
to bind it to anything you can just let
it do all the work for simple situations
so the first big feature that NS array
controller has is selection management
you can bind the selection indexes of a
table view to an array controller
selection indexes and when you do that
and you've also bound the selection
selection properties of an array
controller to you know UI elements
whenever the selection changes key value
observer notifications are sent to the
UI elements so for example a color well
that's bound to an array controllers
selection is notified whenever the in
this example whenever the fill color of
this directive selected
graphics changes and that might happen
either because the fill color of an
individual graphic change or the set of
selected graphics changed in all the
different situations that would cause
that to be updated in the UI msra
controller isn't just for for binding it
provides real API of its own you know
big set of methods you get to call and
just the selection of them NS array
controller has built-in support for user
friendly selection behavior a few flags
like avoids empty selection for when
that's appropriate in the table view
preserve selection so things are are
being inserted and removed around the
selection the selection statesville and
selects inserted objects from and that's
the right you I behavior and for
situations where the array controller is
being manipulated by some other code of
your own you can get it all the things
like the selection index is using
methods like that selection indexes and
add and remove the other big feature
that NS array controller supports right
now is sorting so you can bind the sort
descriptors of a table view to the sort
descriptors of an array controller so as
the users clicking in the the table
column headers to change the sort order
the table view tells the controller that
the list of sort descriptors has changed
and when it does that and this array
controller actually does the sorting and
sends out key value observer
notifications for the array and ranged
objects relationship so that was an NS
array controller and its object
controller is also there and its name
implies it controlled a single object
instead of an array so why is it useful
to bind a UI control to an object
controller it's because you combine an
object controller is something that
might be you know coming and going it
will observe a to one relationship and
another object and I
it's those clever things like handling
the situations where that two men are
that I'm sorry that two one related
object disappears or the type of it
means that the bound to property is no
longer applicable so in general and
object controller serves the purpose of
generating these marker objects that you
heard about our Wednesday that get
converted to placeholder objects that
show up in you I even in simple
situations so in just as with NS array
controller for this object controller it
has a set content method so you can just
let it own what's being presented
and the third new controller is NS user
defaults controller and we saw
demonstrations that on Wednesday and
what you do is you buying the values of
you I controllers to the value of the
user defaults control you know some sub
property of it that's the key for which
you know you get to pick the name so not
only can you do that but you can observe
and its user default controller so other
parts of your program that want to know
immediately when the preferences change
can just register themselves with key
value observers of those properties and
NS user default controller also supports
handy support for setting the initial
values of preferences you know the
factory defaults and shared user
defaults controller is easy to get to an
IV you saw it being picked from the the
pulldown menu in the bindings inspector
on Wednesday so let me show you some of
this code I'm talking about
so let's say that sketch was so useful
that it was worth packaging up and
making sure that it was properly
reusable the first thing we would do in
doing that is adding binding support to
its graphic view and here's a simple
implementation of the key value binding
method that I told you about this sketch
graphic view supports two binding names
one is graphics the list of graphics to
be presented in the view and selection
indexes just you know that which
graphics are selected so in the
implementation is pretty simple all it
does is it just stores a pointer to the
container of the graphics that's being
passed in the keep a that was specified
and then it starts observing that
container of graphics so it wants both
graphics that are being inserted and
graphics that are being removed so it
can update the display and I'm sorry I
move removed while that's happening and
the context that specifies just so it
can identify why it's getting these
observer notifications is just one of a
handful you know simple and it really
just needs them for identification
purposes and for selection indexes it
does a similar thing it records the
information about what the graphic view
is bound to and then adds itself as an
observer and then it updates the display
so sketches draw a document for it to
allow things to bind to it it has to be
key value coding and key value observing
compliant for this graphics relationship
that it publishes this is all it takes
to do to be both key value coding and
key value observing compliant for that
relationship just something that returns
an array of the graphics and the method
that handles insertion and in this case
it still has to do its own undo support
and in addition to doing the actual
insertion that also tells the graphic
what document it's been added to that's
actually part of sketches scripting
support for individual graphics
individual graphics also have to be key
value observing compliance so that the
sketch graphic view can observe them can
be told when they're changed so it knows
to update the screen the first one I'll
show you here is set fill color and I
didn't have to change this at all this
is already key value coding compliant
and because we're using automatic key
value observer notification it's already
kto compliant so no changes necessary
for this one for set stroke line lift it
does a little more the line width of the
sketch graphic effects how large the
graphic is on the screen so it just
manually says when the line width
changes the drawing bounds change and
actually there's another feature that's
going to be in panthers called set Keys
trigger change notifications for
dependent key a mouthful but this is
what you can use to indicate things like
the drawing bound of the sketch graphic
depends on the line with so this will
change value for key and did change
value for key it won't even be necessary
in this situation though should leave it
in just so you can see what it looks
like so
I just run this and it's sketch you know
sketch that's all so it has inspector
panel and I'll select them all so as you
change things that just works so and
I'll show you the code for the inspector
panel in a second and changing things is
automatically updated on the screen so
the code for the inspector panel I think
you can see this coming I'll show you
some of the bindings in the nib this is
pretty neat I be gives you a nice
summary of what's going on with the
bindings so the checkbox here for
controlling whether or not the graphic
is filled it's just bound to the
selection draws fill of an array
controller the fill colors bound the
selection dot fill color of an array
controller and actually it's really not
appropriate to leave that enabled when
that check box is not checked so you can
bind the enabled binding of the color
well to selection draws film so and so
on so because of all the binding support
in the inspector panel and because you
know and it's a raid controllers taking
care of everything for you here is the
source code for inspector controller
which is no longer part of the project I
got to take all of it out so this is not
actually built into the project anymore
so how many lines of code got to go away
because of that finding support and
inspect repent we won't count a
copyright notice
so about 250 lines so if they go
completely away so the last thing I'll
talk about today is performance some of
what we're doing to make sure that the
new technology is fast enough to use and
some performance notes about being key
value coding compliant and Q value
observing component so as I mentioned
observation info is actually associated
with each individual observed object and
it might sound expensive you might
imagine oh no that means that there's
going to twice as many objects in my
system each object and then the
observation info for each object and no
that won't be the case we're actually
taking great care to make sure that when
multiple model objects are being
observed in the same way same set of
observers same key seems like that the
memory that's allocated to record that
observation is shared between the
individual observed objects
key-value coatings performance has
always been very important and we're
making sure we don't ruin it with key
value observing so set value for key has
a certain cost to it and are making sure
that cost isn't going to go up
inappropriately when somebody is
observing that cube for that model
object so and the general rule we're
following is that we're providing good
default implementations for everything
but we're open to optimization but we're
leaving things open to optimization for
specific cases which I'll show you one
piece of advice for you value for key
don't override it there's a bunch of
performance tricks we can play as far as
caching objective-c runtime info goes
but all those tricks are effectively
defeated if value for key is overridden
so in general just stick to the pattern
of implementing you know key value
coding compliant accessor methods so I
mentioned that we added a support for
implementing key value coding compliant
methods of the form counts of key and
object and key at index those are
required if you're using that pattern of
giving access to relationship if
measurement says it's worth it you can
also implement a method whose name
follows this pattern get key range so
those first two methods correspond
roughly to the primitive of NS array and
this next method corresponds pretty much
to another NS array method that you can
override for mutable to many
relationships you have to implement
these insert object and remove object
methods you can also implement a replace
message if it makes a difference in your
too many relationships case so that's
just two optional key value coding
compliant methods we plan on adding a
bunch more in the future as we get more
experience with this
seeing how people are using it and you
know see the the performance issues that
need to be dealt with so and for example
we you know we might add more optional
key value coding compliant methods that
lets you insert and remove ranges or
work with the new and its index set
class that's being introduced in
Panthers so and whatever we do though we
don't intend to you know change the list
of methods that's required to be key
value coding compliant as far as using
key value coding goes the advice is
don't over use it so if you're
converting code making it more generic
letting it support bindings and you're
converting implementations of simple
methods to uses of value for key and
mutable array value for key that might
be worth measuring when you're all done
with that these methods are pretty fast
considering what they do but they will
always be more expensive than a simple
objective c message dispatch so you
should check that
when you're using value for key in
getting an array back or using mutable
array value for key and getting mutable
array back what we're suggesting for now
is try to use it just like you would a
normal NS array or NS mutable ring our
intent is that the performance
characteristics will be pretty much the
same as a real an iterator and it's
mutable array so if then when that's not
the case we want to hear about it and if
you see optimization needs to be done
try and keep that in the model code and
you know where it will be more reusable
as far as efficient key value observing
compliance goes there's a pair of
methods that you get to override if you
need to and I think typically you won't
but they're called set observation info
and observation info so when large
numbers of objects are being observed
you know the observation info is
actually stored separately from the
object associated with a hash table and
that should be good for most of the you
know most of the time but there may be
situations where it's not and when it's
not we just want you to give us four
bytes of instance variable space and let
us put the observation info there and in
general with key value observing take
advantage of the fact that these
observation notifications are our super
fine granularity it just doesn't say
that the object changed it says that
this property of the object changed so
you know don't don't cause Q value
observer notifications to be sent out
when nothing is actually changing and on
the other side of it don't observe not
necessarily so that the asset views to
which binding support are being added
take care not to observe gratuitously
the best example of this is table view
when a table views role objects are
bound to too many relationship in a
container for example in an NS array
controllers arranged objects which will
be typical if the table view if there's
like you know hundred thousand rows and
the in the table it doesn't observe a
hundred thousand objects it just
observes the 50 that are visible
at any one time and we're taking care to
make sure that adding and removing one
object as an observer of another is is
fast enough to make that feasible so
there isn't any noticeable overhead
while you're scrolling a table view
caused by the facts of this table view
is d registering itself as an observer
the objects as the scroll off and
registering itself as an observer in six
tall on so one more pair of methods I
haven't told you about yet it's the bulk
variance of AD observer and remove
observer so the same set of parameters
as the ad observer in the new observer
I've already shown you but it's sent to
an nsarray and it takes an index set
identifying the objects to which key
value observer should be added or
removed so and in general you know
there's a little bit of work that has to
be done when one object adds itself as
an observer of another with these
methods that little bit of work is only
done once basically the observed objects
you just told you know here's your
observation and if I'll hold on to it
for me so that's pretty much it on
Wednesday we introduced great new
technology to make user interface
programming much easier and today we
talked about what it takes for your
custom model objects to hook into that
so and it basically boils down to being
key value coding compliant and ki doli
observing compliant and we work pretty
hard to make sure that that's going to
be fast and easy for you it so I hope
you all give what is on the wwc see
it a try it should work pretty well for
you and and we hook you a right great
custom apps with this thang
thanks mark let's see okay so here's the
roadmap obviously this is make much
sense since it's Friday but fortunately
there are dvds that you'll be all
getting so make sure you look at those
dvds when you get them check out the
intro Coco the cocoa update sessions and
so on we do have a couple of things
still coming up today we have the tips
and tricks for 24 sort of your reward
for staying through the entire week some
really cool stuff in there and of course
so what's new for Coco tech some really
great stuff that we've added to the text
engine okie dokie there we go so John
Glenn geez the person you want to talk
to if you've got some information
feedback what have you on all the coca
cells that you've seen at the show you
have general API suggestions they should
go to Coco dash feedback at group that
apple com those go directly to the cocoa
engineering team and if you have code
level questions they should come to my
team develop technical support where I
have to help you if you need more
information we've got no documentation
[Applause]
but feel free to check the headers we
will we will have documentation for
Panzer
you